Let's how we inject beans into other beans.
Our BookRepository is a bean and it defines a create method to create a book.
The process of creating a book could be reduced to
persisting the entity to the database, but it's more complex than that.
First,
we need to generate a unique isbn number and sanitize the title of
the book so we avoid double spaces or line breaks,
for example.
These two services are done by two external beans,
respectively NumberGenerator and TextUtil.
How do we get a reference to those beans?
By using the CDI @Inject annotation, simple as that.
In terms of code,
the TextUtil is just a simple class with no annotation which doesn't extend or
implement anything and the sanitize method is pretty simple as it applies a
regular expression to remove one or many white spaces.
The other bean injected by the BookRepository is the NumberGenerator interface.
So as you can see, CDI can inject an implementation or an interface.
This interface defines the method generateNumber, which generates a book number.
This interface is implemented by the IsbnGenerator
class that generates an isbn number.
The algorithm generates a random number, starting with a prefix 13.
We decouple the declaration and the implementation because one day we might
need to implement a different algorithm to generate a number.
Even if the BookRepository injects the NumberGenerator interface,
and not the implementation,
a simple @Inject and CDI will inject the right dependency.
For injection to work, CDI needs an XML deployment descriptor called beans.
xml.
It can be totally empty except for the bean-discovery. Here we are informed CDI to discover all the beans of our application.